plugins/multi-model/commands/execute.md, before:

---
description: Multi-model execute — run a task across Claude, Gemini, and GPT in git worktrees, then synthesize the best of all approaches
allowed-tools: ["Bash", "Read", "Grep", "Glob", "Edit", "Write", "Task"]
---

# Multi-Model Execute

Run a task across multiple AI models (Claude, Gemini, GPT), each working in its own **isolated git worktree**. After all models complete, **synthesize the best elements from all approaches** into a single, superior implementation. Unlike `/multi-model:prompt` (which picks one winner), this command cherry-picks the best parts from each model's work.

The task comes from `$ARGUMENTS`. If no arguments are provided, ask the user what they want implemented.

---

## Phase 1: Gather Context

**Goal**: Understand the project and prepare the task.

1. **Read CLAUDE.md / AGENTS.md** if present — project conventions constrain all implementations.

2. **Determine trunk branch**:
   ```bash
   git remote show origin | grep 'HEAD branch'
   ```

3. **Record the current branch and commit**:
   ```bash
   git branch --show-current
   git rev-parse HEAD
   ```
   Store these — all worktrees branch from this point.

4. **Capture the task**: Use `$ARGUMENTS` as the task. If `$ARGUMENTS` is empty, ask the user.

5. **Explore relevant code**: Read files relevant to the task to understand existing patterns, APIs, and test structure. This context helps evaluate model outputs later.

---

## Phase 2: Detect Available Models

**Goal**: Check which AI CLI tools are installed locally.

Run these checks in parallel:

```bash
which gemini 2>/dev/null && echo "gemini:available" || echo "gemini:missing"
which codex 2>/dev/null && echo "codex:available" || echo "codex:missing"
which agent 2>/dev/null && echo "agent:available" || echo "agent:missing"
```

### Model resolution (priority order)

| Slot | Priority 1 (native) | Priority 2 (agent fallback) | Agent model |
|------|---------------------|-----------------------------|-------------|
| **Claude** | Always available (this agent) | — | — |
| **Gemini** | `gemini` binary | `agent --model gemini-3-pro` | `gemini-3-pro` |
| **GPT** | `codex` binary | `agent --model gpt-5.2` | `gpt-5.2` |

Report which models will participate and which backend each uses.

### Timeout command

```bash
which timeout 2>/dev/null && echo "timeout:available" || { which gtimeout 2>/dev/null && echo "gtimeout:available" || echo "timeout:none"; }
```

On Linux, `timeout` is available by default. On macOS, `gtimeout` is available
via GNU coreutils. If neither is found, run external commands without a timeout
prefix — time limits will not be enforced. Do not install packages automatically.

---

## Phase 3: Create Isolated Worktrees

**Goal**: Set up an isolated git worktree for each available external model.

For each external model (Gemini, GPT — Claude works in the main tree):

```bash
git worktree add ../<repo-name>-mm-<model> -b mm/<model>/<timestamp>
```

Example:
```bash
git worktree add ../myproject-mm-gemini -b mm/gemini/20260208-143022
git worktree add ../myproject-mm-gpt -b mm/gpt/20260208-143022
```

Use the format `mm/<model>/<YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS>` for branch names.

---

## Phase 4: Run All Models in Parallel

**Goal**: Execute the task in each model's isolated environment.

### Claude Implementation (main worktree)

Launch a Task agent with `subagent_type: "general-purpose"` to implement in the main working tree:

**Prompt for the Claude agent**:
> Implement the following task in this codebase. Read CLAUDE.md/AGENTS.md for project conventions and follow them strictly.
>
> Task: <user's task>
>
> Follow all project conventions from AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md. Run the project's quality gates after making changes.

### Gemini Implementation (worktree)

**Implementation prompt** (same for both backends):
> Implement the following task. Follow AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md conventions. Run quality checks after implementation.
>
> Task: <user's task>

**Native (`gemini` CLI)** — run in the worktree directory:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gemini && timeout 1200 gemini -p "<implementation prompt>"
```

**Fallback (`agent` CLI)**:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gemini && timeout 1200 agent -p -f --model gemini-3-pro "<implementation prompt>"
```

### GPT Implementation (worktree)

**Implementation prompt** (same for both backends):
> Implement the following task. Follow AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md conventions. Run quality checks after implementation.
>
> Task: <user's task>

**Native (`codex` CLI)** — run in the worktree directory:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gpt && timeout 1200 codex \
    --sandbox danger-full-access \
    --ask-for-approval never \
    -c model_reasoning_effort=medium \
    exec "<implementation prompt>"
```

**Fallback (`agent` CLI)**:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gpt && timeout 1200 agent -p -f --model gpt-5.2 "<implementation prompt>"
```

### Execution Strategy

- Launch all models in parallel.
- Use 20-minute timeout (`timeout 1200`) since models are writing code. If `timeout` is not available and `gtimeout` is not installed, time limits will not be enforced. If models time out, increase the value. If they finish quickly, lower it to reduce wait time on failures.
- If a model fails, note the failure and continue with remaining models.

---

## Phase 5: Analyze All Implementations

**Goal**: Deep-compare every model's implementation to identify the best elements from each.

### Step 1: Gather All Diffs

For each model that completed:

**Claude** (main worktree):
```bash
git diff HEAD
```

**External models** (worktrees):
```bash
git -C ../<repo-name>-mm-<model> diff HEAD
```

### Step 2: Run Quality Gates on Each

For each implementation, run the project's quality gates in its worktree. Discover the specific commands from AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md. Common gates include:

| Gate | Example commands |
|------|-----------------|
| Formatter | `ruff format`, `prettier`, `rustfmt`, `gofmt` |
| Linter | `ruff check`, `eslint`, `clippy`, `golangci-lint` |
| Type checker | `mypy`, `tsc --noEmit`, `basedpyright` |
| Tests | `pytest`, `jest`, `cargo test`, `go test` |

Record pass/fail status for each gate and model.

### Step 3: File-by-File Comparison

For each file that was modified by any model:

1. **Read all versions** — the original plus each model's version
2. **Compare approaches** — how did each model solve this part?
3. **Rate each approach** on:
   - Correctness (does it work?)
   - Convention adherence (does it match project patterns?)
   - Code quality (readability, naming, structure)
   - Completeness (edge cases, error handling)
   - Test coverage (if a test file)

4. **Select the best approach per file** — this may come from different models for different files

### Step 4: Present Analysis to User

```markdown
# Multi-Model Implementation Analysis

**Task**: <user's task>

## Quality Gate Results

| Model | Formatter | Linter | Type checker | Tests | Overall |
|-------|-----------|--------|--------------|-------|---------|
| Claude | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail |
| Gemini | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail |
| GPT | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail |

## File-by-File Best Approach

| File | Best From | Why |
|------|-----------|-----|
| `src/foo` | Claude | Better error handling, follows project patterns |
| `src/bar` | Gemini | More complete implementation, covers edge case X |
| `tests/test_foo` | GPT | Better use of existing test fixtures |

## Synthesis Plan

1. Take `src/foo` from Claude's implementation
2. Take `src/bar` from Gemini's implementation
3. Take `tests/test_foo` from GPT's implementation
4. Combine and verify quality gates pass
```

**Wait for user confirmation** before applying the synthesis.

---

## Phase 6: Synthesize the Best Implementation

**Goal**: Combine the best elements from all models into the main working tree.

### Step 1: Start Fresh

Discard Claude's changes to start from a clean state:
```bash
git checkout -- .
```

### Step 2: Apply Best-of-Breed Changes

For each file, apply the best model's version:

- **If from Claude**: Re-apply Claude's changes (from the diff captured earlier)
- **If from an external model**: Read the file from the worktree and apply it:
  ```bash
  git -C ../<repo-name>-mm-<model> show HEAD:<filepath>
  ```
  Then use Edit/Write to apply those changes to the main tree.

### Step 3: Integrate and Adjust

After applying best-of-breed changes:
1. **Read the combined result** — verify all pieces fit together
2. **Fix integration issues** — imports, function signatures, or API mismatches between files from different models
3. **Ensure consistency** — naming conventions, docstring style, import style from CLAUDE.md

### Step 4: Run Quality Gates

Run the project's quality gates as defined in AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md. All gates must pass. If they fail, fix the integration issues and re-run.

### Step 5: Cleanup Worktrees

Remove all multi-model worktrees and branches:

```bash
git worktree remove ../<repo-name>-mm-gemini --force 2>/dev/null
git worktree remove ../<repo-name>-mm-gpt --force 2>/dev/null
git branch -D mm/gemini/<timestamp> 2>/dev/null
git branch -D mm/gpt/<timestamp> 2>/dev/null
```

---

## Phase 7: Summary

Present the final result:

```markdown
# Synthesis Complete

**Task**: <user's task>

## What was synthesized

| File | Source Model | Key Contribution |
|------|-------------|-----------------|
| `src/foo` | Claude | <what it contributed> |
| `src/bar` | Gemini | <what it contributed> |
| `tests/test_foo` | GPT | <what it contributed> |

## Quality Gates

All project quality gates passed.

## Models participated: Claude, Gemini, GPT
## Models unavailable/failed: (if any)
```

The changes are now in the working tree, unstaged. The user can review and commit them.

---

## Rules

- Always create isolated worktrees — never let models interfere with each other
- Always run quality gates on each implementation before comparing
- Always present the synthesis plan to the user and wait for confirmation before applying
- Always clean up worktrees and branches after synthesis
- The synthesis must pass all quality gates before being considered complete
- If only Claude is available, skip worktree creation and just implement directly
- Use `timeout 1200` for external CLI commands — adjust higher or lower based on observed completion times
- If a model fails, clearly report why and continue with remaining models
- Branch names use `mm/<model>/<YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS>` format
- Never commit the synthesized result — leave it unstaged for user review
- If an external model times out persistently, ask the user whether to retry with a higher timeout. Warn that retrying spawns external AI agents that may consume tokens billed to other provider accounts (Gemini, OpenAI, Cursor, etc.).

Commit message:

ai(claude[commands]) Add macOS gtimeout and fallback notes to Rules sections
why: Rules section should match the Execution Strategy guidance on timeout fallback.
what:
- Add gtimeout mention and fallback behavior to Rules timeout bullet in all 5 files
- Consistent guidance across both Execution Strategy and Rules sections

plugins/multi-model/commands/execute.md, after:

---
description: Multi-model execute — run a task across Claude, Gemini, and GPT in git worktrees, then synthesize the best of all approaches
allowed-tools: ["Bash", "Read", "Grep", "Glob", "Edit", "Write", "Task"]
---

# Multi-Model Execute

Run a task across multiple AI models (Claude, Gemini, GPT), each working in its own **isolated git worktree**. After all models complete, **synthesize the best elements from all approaches** into a single, superior implementation. Unlike `/multi-model:prompt` (which picks one winner), this command cherry-picks the best parts from each model's work.

The task comes from `$ARGUMENTS`. If no arguments are provided, ask the user what they want implemented.

---

## Phase 1: Gather Context

**Goal**: Understand the project and prepare the task.

1. **Read CLAUDE.md / AGENTS.md** if present — project conventions constrain all implementations.

2. **Determine trunk branch**:
   ```bash
   git remote show origin | grep 'HEAD branch'
   ```

3. **Record the current branch and commit**:
   ```bash
   git branch --show-current
   git rev-parse HEAD
   ```
   Store these — all worktrees branch from this point.

4. **Capture the task**: Use `$ARGUMENTS` as the task. If `$ARGUMENTS` is empty, ask the user.

5. **Explore relevant code**: Read files relevant to the task to understand existing patterns, APIs, and test structure. This context helps evaluate model outputs later.

---

## Phase 2: Detect Available Models

**Goal**: Check which AI CLI tools are installed locally.

Run these checks in parallel:

```bash
which gemini 2>/dev/null && echo "gemini:available" || echo "gemini:missing"
which codex 2>/dev/null && echo "codex:available" || echo "codex:missing"
which agent 2>/dev/null && echo "agent:available" || echo "agent:missing"
```

### Model resolution (priority order)

| Slot | Priority 1 (native) | Priority 2 (agent fallback) | Agent model |
|------|---------------------|-----------------------------|-------------|
| **Claude** | Always available (this agent) | — | — |
| **Gemini** | `gemini` binary | `agent --model gemini-3-pro` | `gemini-3-pro` |
| **GPT** | `codex` binary | `agent --model gpt-5.2` | `gpt-5.2` |

Report which models will participate and which backend each uses.

### Timeout command

```bash
which timeout 2>/dev/null && echo "timeout:available" || { which gtimeout 2>/dev/null && echo "gtimeout:available" || echo "timeout:none"; }
```

On Linux, `timeout` is available by default. On macOS, `gtimeout` is available
via GNU coreutils. If neither is found, run external commands without a timeout
prefix — time limits will not be enforced. Do not install packages automatically.

---

## Phase 3: Create Isolated Worktrees

**Goal**: Set up an isolated git worktree for each available external model.

For each external model (Gemini, GPT — Claude works in the main tree):

```bash
git worktree add ../<repo-name>-mm-<model> -b mm/<model>/<timestamp>
```

Example:
```bash
git worktree add ../myproject-mm-gemini -b mm/gemini/20260208-143022
git worktree add ../myproject-mm-gpt -b mm/gpt/20260208-143022
```

Use the format `mm/<model>/<YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS>` for branch names.

---

## Phase 4: Run All Models in Parallel

**Goal**: Execute the task in each model's isolated environment.

### Claude Implementation (main worktree)

Launch a Task agent with `subagent_type: "general-purpose"` to implement in the main working tree:

**Prompt for the Claude agent**:
> Implement the following task in this codebase. Read CLAUDE.md/AGENTS.md for project conventions and follow them strictly.
>
> Task: <user's task>
>
> Follow all project conventions from AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md. Run the project's quality gates after making changes.

### Gemini Implementation (worktree)

**Implementation prompt** (same for both backends):
> Implement the following task. Follow AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md conventions. Run quality checks after implementation.
>
> Task: <user's task>

**Native (`gemini` CLI)** — run in the worktree directory:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gemini && timeout 1200 gemini -p "<implementation prompt>"
```

**Fallback (`agent` CLI)**:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gemini && timeout 1200 agent -p -f --model gemini-3-pro "<implementation prompt>"
```

### GPT Implementation (worktree)

**Implementation prompt** (same for both backends):
> Implement the following task. Follow AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md conventions. Run quality checks after implementation.
>
> Task: <user's task>

**Native (`codex` CLI)** — run in the worktree directory:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gpt && timeout 1200 codex \
    --sandbox danger-full-access \
    --ask-for-approval never \
    -c model_reasoning_effort=medium \
    exec "<implementation prompt>"
```

**Fallback (`agent` CLI)**:
```bash
cd ../<repo-name>-mm-gpt && timeout 1200 agent -p -f --model gpt-5.2 "<implementation prompt>"
```

### Execution Strategy

- Launch all models in parallel.
- Use 20-minute timeout (`timeout 1200`) since models are writing code. If `timeout` is not available and `gtimeout` is not installed, time limits will not be enforced. If models time out, increase the value. If they finish quickly, lower it to reduce wait time on failures.
- If a model fails, note the failure and continue with remaining models.

---

## Phase 5: Analyze All Implementations

**Goal**: Deep-compare every model's implementation to identify the best elements from each.

### Step 1: Gather All Diffs

For each model that completed:

**Claude** (main worktree):
```bash
git diff HEAD
```

**External models** (worktrees):
```bash
git -C ../<repo-name>-mm-<model> diff HEAD
```

### Step 2: Run Quality Gates on Each

For each implementation, run the project's quality gates in its worktree. Discover the specific commands from AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md. Common gates include:

| Gate | Example commands |
|------|-----------------|
| Formatter | `ruff format`, `prettier`, `rustfmt`, `gofmt` |
| Linter | `ruff check`, `eslint`, `clippy`, `golangci-lint` |
| Type checker | `mypy`, `tsc --noEmit`, `basedpyright` |
| Tests | `pytest`, `jest`, `cargo test`, `go test` |

Record pass/fail status for each gate and model.

### Step 3: File-by-File Comparison

For each file that was modified by any model:

1. **Read all versions** — the original plus each model's version
2. **Compare approaches** — how did each model solve this part?
3. **Rate each approach** on:
   - Correctness (does it work?)
   - Convention adherence (does it match project patterns?)
   - Code quality (readability, naming, structure)
   - Completeness (edge cases, error handling)
   - Test coverage (if a test file)

4. **Select the best approach per file** — this may come from different models for different files

### Step 4: Present Analysis to User

```markdown
# Multi-Model Implementation Analysis

**Task**: <user's task>

## Quality Gate Results

| Model | Formatter | Linter | Type checker | Tests | Overall |
|-------|-----------|--------|--------------|-------|---------|
| Claude | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail |
| Gemini | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail |
| GPT | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail | pass/fail |

## File-by-File Best Approach

| File | Best From | Why |
|------|-----------|-----|
| `src/foo` | Claude | Better error handling, follows project patterns |
| `src/bar` | Gemini | More complete implementation, covers edge case X |
| `tests/test_foo` | GPT | Better use of existing test fixtures |

## Synthesis Plan

1. Take `src/foo` from Claude's implementation
2. Take `src/bar` from Gemini's implementation
3. Take `tests/test_foo` from GPT's implementation
4. Combine and verify quality gates pass
```

**Wait for user confirmation** before applying the synthesis.

---

## Phase 6: Synthesize the Best Implementation

**Goal**: Combine the best elements from all models into the main working tree.

### Step 1: Start Fresh

Discard Claude's changes to start from a clean state:
```bash
git checkout -- .
```

### Step 2: Apply Best-of-Breed Changes

For each file, apply the best model's version:

- **If from Claude**: Re-apply Claude's changes (from the diff captured earlier)
- **If from an external model**: Read the file from the worktree and apply it:
  ```bash
  git -C ../<repo-name>-mm-<model> show HEAD:<filepath>
  ```
  Then use Edit/Write to apply those changes to the main tree.

### Step 3: Integrate and Adjust

After applying best-of-breed changes:
1. **Read the combined result** — verify all pieces fit together
2. **Fix integration issues** — imports, function signatures, or API mismatches between files from different models
3. **Ensure consistency** — naming conventions, docstring style, import style from CLAUDE.md

### Step 4: Run Quality Gates

Run the project's quality gates as defined in AGENTS.md/CLAUDE.md. All gates must pass. If they fail, fix the integration issues and re-run.

### Step 5: Cleanup Worktrees

Remove all multi-model worktrees and branches:

```bash
git worktree remove ../<repo-name>-mm-gemini --force 2>/dev/null
git worktree remove ../<repo-name>-mm-gpt --force 2>/dev/null
git branch -D mm/gemini/<timestamp> 2>/dev/null
git branch -D mm/gpt/<timestamp> 2>/dev/null
```

---

## Phase 7: Summary

Present the final result:

```markdown
# Synthesis Complete

**Task**: <user's task>

## What was synthesized

| File | Source Model | Key Contribution |
|------|-------------|-----------------|
| `src/foo` | Claude | <what it contributed> |
| `src/bar` | Gemini | <what it contributed> |
| `tests/test_foo` | GPT | <what it contributed> |

## Quality Gates

All project quality gates passed.

## Models participated: Claude, Gemini, GPT
## Models unavailable/failed: (if any)
```

The changes are now in the working tree, unstaged. The user can review and commit them.

---

## Rules

- Always create isolated worktrees — never let models interfere with each other
- Always run quality gates on each implementation before comparing
- Always present the synthesis plan to the user and wait for confirmation before applying
- Always clean up worktrees and branches after synthesis
- The synthesis must pass all quality gates before being considered complete
- If only Claude is available, skip worktree creation and just implement directly
- Use `timeout 1200` for external CLI commands (`gtimeout` on macOS). If neither is available, omit the timeout prefix — time limits will not be enforced. Adjust higher or lower based on observed completion times.
- If a model fails, clearly report why and continue with remaining models
- Branch names use `mm/<model>/<YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS>` format
- Never commit the synthesized result — leave it unstaged for user review
- If an external model times out persistently, ask the user whether to retry with a higher timeout. Warn that retrying spawns external AI agents that may consume tokens billed to other provider accounts (Gemini, OpenAI, Cursor, etc.).
