plugins/multi-model/README.md, before:

# multi-model

Run prompts across Claude, Gemini, and GPT in parallel — plan, execute, review, and synthesize the best of all models.

## Installation

Add the marketplace:

```console
/plugin marketplace add tony/ai-workflow-plugins
```

Install the plugin:

```console
/plugin install multi-model@ai-workflow-plugins
```

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/multi-model:ask` | Ask all models a question, synthesize the best answer |
| `/multi-model:plan` | Get implementation plans from all models, synthesize the best plan |
| `/multi-model:prompt` | Run a prompt in isolated worktrees, pick the best implementation |
| `/multi-model:execute` | Run a task in isolated worktrees, synthesize the best parts of each |
| `/multi-model:review` | Run code review with all models, produce consensus-weighted report |
| `/multi-model:fix-review` | Fix review findings as atomic commits with test coverage |

## How It Works

Each command follows a consistent multi-phase workflow:

1. **Configure** — Parse trigger words and prompt for settings if none provided.
2. **Detect models** — Check for `gemini`, `codex`, and `agent` CLIs. Use native CLIs when available, fall back to the `agent` CLI with `--model` flags.
3. **Run in parallel** — Execute the task across all available models simultaneously.
4. **Synthesize** — Compare outputs, verify claims against the codebase, and combine the best elements.
5. **Refine** (multi-pass) — Optionally re-run all models with the prior synthesis as context for deeper results.

### Read-Only Commands

**ask**, **plan**, and **review** do not modify files. They gather multiple perspectives and synthesize a single best result.

### Write Commands

**prompt** and **execute** create isolated git worktrees for each external model, so implementations never interfere with each other. After comparison:
- **prompt** picks one winner
- **execute** cherry-picks the best parts from each model

**fix-review** processes findings from a review, applying each as an atomic commit with test coverage. Multi-pass does not apply to fix-review since it is already iterative.

## Multi-Pass Refinement

Multi-pass re-runs all models with the prior synthesis prepended as context, allowing each model to challenge, deepen, or confirm the previous round's results. This produces higher-quality outputs at the cost of additional model invocations.

### Trigger Words

Append trigger words to any command's arguments to control pass count:

| Trigger | Passes | Example |
|---------|--------|---------|
| `x2` or `multipass` | 2 | `/multi-model:ask what is this project? x2` |
| `x3` or `ultrathink` | 3 | `/multi-model:plan add auth ultrathink` |
| `x<N>` (N = 2–5) | N | `/multi-model:review x4` |

Values above 5 are capped at 5.

### Timeout Triggers

Override the default timeout per command:

| Trigger | Effect | Example |
|---------|--------|---------|
| `timeout:<seconds>` | Set custom timeout | `/multi-model:ask question timeout:300` |
| `timeout:none` | Disable timeout | `/multi-model:execute task timeout:none` |

Default timeouts per command: ask (450s), plan (600s), prompt (600s), review (900s), execute (1200s).

### Interactive Configuration

When no trigger words or timeout overrides are present in the arguments, commands prompt via `AskUserQuestion` for:

1. **Pass count** — choose single pass, multipass (2), ultrathink (3), or custom (2–5)
2. **Timeout** — choose the default, quick (180s), long (900s), or no timeout

This prompt is skipped when trigger words are detected or when running in headless mode (`claude -p`), which uses defaults silently.

## Prerequisites

At minimum, Claude (this agent) is always available. For multi-model functionality, install one or more external CLIs:

| CLI | Model | Install |
|-----|-------|---------|
| `gemini` | Gemini | [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) |
| `codex` | GPT | [Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) |
| `agent` | Any (fallback) | [Agent CLI](https://cursor.com/cli) |

### macOS timeout support

External CLI commands are wrapped with `timeout` (GNU coreutils) to enforce time
limits. On macOS, install GNU coreutils to get `gtimeout`:

```console
brew install coreutils
```

If neither `timeout` nor `gtimeout` is found, commands run without a time limit.

If no external CLIs are available, commands fall back to Claude-only mode with a note about the limitation.

## Shell Resilience

All commands use `command -v` (POSIX-portable) instead of `which` for CLI detection. Prompts are written to temporary files (`/tmp/mm-prompt-XXXXXX.txt`) to avoid shell metacharacter injection. stderr is captured to separate files (`/tmp/mm-stderr-<model>.txt`) for failure diagnostics. A structured retry protocol classifies failures (timeout, rate-limit, crash, empty output) and retries retryable failures once before marking a model unavailable.

## Language-Agnostic Design

All commands discover project-specific tooling by reading AGENTS.md / CLAUDE.md at runtime. Quality gates, test commands, and conventions are never hardcoded — they work with any language or framework.

Commit message:

ai(claude[commands]) Always prompt for passes, narrow trigger scanning to first/last line
why: Loose trigger word matching fired on natural language in pasted content
(e.g. "passes" in "how data passes through"), and detected triggers silently
skipped the passes question instead of letting the user confirm.
what:
- Scan only first/last line of $ARGUMENTS for triggers; disambiguate via
  AskUserQuestion if trigger-like words appear only in body
- Always prompt for pass count (triggers bias recommended option, never skip)
- Remove ultrathink trigger, loose "passes"/"timeout" word matches
- Rename has_pass_config to pass_hint (nullable int vs boolean)
- Replace "Custom (2-5)" option with built-in "Other" from AskUserQuestion
- Rename "ultrathink" option to "triple pass" across all commands and README
- Update fix-review.md trigger example and README trigger/config docs

plugins/multi-model/README.md, after:

# multi-model

Run prompts across Claude, Gemini, and GPT in parallel — plan, execute, review, and synthesize the best of all models.

## Installation

Add the marketplace:

```console
/plugin marketplace add tony/ai-workflow-plugins
```

Install the plugin:

```console
/plugin install multi-model@ai-workflow-plugins
```

## Commands

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/multi-model:ask` | Ask all models a question, synthesize the best answer |
| `/multi-model:plan` | Get implementation plans from all models, synthesize the best plan |
| `/multi-model:prompt` | Run a prompt in isolated worktrees, pick the best implementation |
| `/multi-model:execute` | Run a task in isolated worktrees, synthesize the best parts of each |
| `/multi-model:review` | Run code review with all models, produce consensus-weighted report |
| `/multi-model:fix-review` | Fix review findings as atomic commits with test coverage |

## How It Works

Each command follows a consistent multi-phase workflow:

1. **Configure** — Parse trigger words and prompt for settings if none provided.
2. **Detect models** — Check for `gemini`, `codex`, and `agent` CLIs. Use native CLIs when available, fall back to the `agent` CLI with `--model` flags.
3. **Run in parallel** — Execute the task across all available models simultaneously.
4. **Synthesize** — Compare outputs, verify claims against the codebase, and combine the best elements.
5. **Refine** (multi-pass) — Optionally re-run all models with the prior synthesis as context for deeper results.

### Read-Only Commands

**ask**, **plan**, and **review** do not modify files. They gather multiple perspectives and synthesize a single best result.

### Write Commands

**prompt** and **execute** create isolated git worktrees for each external model, so implementations never interfere with each other. After comparison:
- **prompt** picks one winner
- **execute** cherry-picks the best parts from each model

**fix-review** processes findings from a review, applying each as an atomic commit with test coverage. Multi-pass does not apply to fix-review since it is already iterative.

## Multi-Pass Refinement

Multi-pass re-runs all models with the prior synthesis prepended as context, allowing each model to challenge, deepen, or confirm the previous round's results. This produces higher-quality outputs at the cost of additional model invocations.

### Trigger Words

Append trigger words to any command's arguments to hint at pass count:

| Trigger | Effect | Example |
|---------|--------|---------|
| `multipass` | Hints 2 passes | `/multi-model:ask what is this? multipass` |
| `x<N>` (N = 2–5) | Hints N passes | `/multi-model:plan add auth x3` |

Triggers are hints — commands always prompt for confirmation. Values above 5 are capped at 5. Only the first and last line of arguments are scanned; trigger-like words found elsewhere prompt for disambiguation.

### Timeout Triggers

Override the default timeout per command:

| Trigger | Effect | Example |
|---------|--------|---------|
| `timeout:<seconds>` | Set custom timeout | `/multi-model:ask question timeout:300` |
| `timeout:none` | Disable timeout | `/multi-model:execute task timeout:none` |

Default timeouts per command: ask (450s), plan (600s), prompt (600s), review (900s), execute (1200s).

### Interactive Configuration

Commands always prompt via `AskUserQuestion` for pass count, with trigger hints biasing the recommended option:

1. **Pass count** (always asked) — choose single pass (1), multipass (2), or triple pass (3). If a trigger hint is present, the matching option is marked as recommended.
2. **Timeout** (asked unless structured trigger present) — choose the default, quick (180s), long (900s), or no timeout. Skipped when `timeout:<seconds>` or `timeout:none` is provided.

In headless mode (`claude -p`), pass count uses the trigger hint value if present, otherwise defaults to 1. Timeout uses the parsed value if provided, otherwise the per-command default.

## Prerequisites

At minimum, Claude (this agent) is always available. For multi-model functionality, install one or more external CLIs:

| CLI | Model | Install |
|-----|-------|---------|
| `gemini` | Gemini | [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) |
| `codex` | GPT | [Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) |
| `agent` | Any (fallback) | [Agent CLI](https://cursor.com/cli) |

### macOS timeout support

External CLI commands are wrapped with `timeout` (GNU coreutils) to enforce time
limits. On macOS, install GNU coreutils to get `gtimeout`:

```console
brew install coreutils
```

If neither `timeout` nor `gtimeout` is found, commands run without a time limit.

If no external CLIs are available, commands fall back to Claude-only mode with a note about the limitation.

## Shell Resilience

All commands use `command -v` (POSIX-portable) instead of `which` for CLI detection. Prompts are written to temporary files (`/tmp/mm-prompt-XXXXXX.txt`) to avoid shell metacharacter injection. stderr is captured to separate files (`/tmp/mm-stderr-<model>.txt`) for failure diagnostics. A structured retry protocol classifies failures (timeout, rate-limit, crash, empty output) and retries retryable failures once before marking a model unavailable.

## Language-Agnostic Design

All commands discover project-specific tooling by reading AGENTS.md / CLAUDE.md at runtime. Quality gates, test commands, and conventions are never hardcoded — they work with any language or framework.
